
# Title 5— GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION AND EMPLOYEES
### CHAPTER 83— RETIREMENT
#### § 8337. Disability retirement

(a) An employee who completes 5 years of civilian service and has become disabled shall be retired on the employee’s own application or on application by the employee’s agency. Any employee shall be considered to be disabled only if the employee is found by the Office of Personnel Management to be unable, because of disease or injury, to render useful and efficient service in the employee’s position and is not qualified for reassignment, under procedures prescribed by the Office, to a vacant position which is in the agency at the same grade or level and in which the employee would be able to render useful and efficient service. For the purpose of the preceding sentence, an employee of the United States Postal Service shall be considered not qualified for a reassignment described in that sentence if the reassignment is to a position in a different craft or is inconsistent with the terms of a collective bargaining agreement covering the employee. A judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces who completes 5 years of civilian service and who is found by the Office to be disabled for useful and efficient service as a judge of such court or who is removed for mental or physical disability under section 942(c) of title 10 shall be retired on the judge’s own application or upon such removal. A Member who completes 5 years of Member service and is found by the Office to be disabled for useful and efficient service as a Member because of disease or injury shall be retired on the Member’s own application. An annuity authorized by this section is computed under section 8339(g) of this title , unless the employee or Member is eligible for a higher annuity computed under section 8339(a) through (e), (n), (q), (r), or (s).

(b) A claim may be allowed under this section only if the application is filed with the Office before the employee or Member is separated from the service or within 1 year thereafter. This time limitation may be waived by the Office for an employee or Member who at the date of separation from service or within 1 year thereafter is mentally incompetent, if the application is filed with the Office within 1 year from the date of restoration of the employee or Member to competency or the appointment of a fiduciary, whichever is earlier.
