
# Title 34— CRIME CONTROL AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
## Subtitle II— Protection of Children and Other Persons
### CHAPTER 211— COMBATING CHILD EXPLOITATION
#### § 21116. ICAC grant program
##### (a) Establishment

(1) In general

The Attorney General is authorized to award grants to State and local ICAC task forces to assist in carrying out the duties and functions described under section 21114 of this title .

(2) Formula grants

(A) Development of formula

At least 75 percent of the total funds appropriated to carry out this section shall be available to award or otherwise distribute grants pursuant to a funding formula established by the Attorney General in accordance with the requirements in subparagraph (B).

(B) Formula requirements

Any formula established by the Attorney General under subparagraph (A) shall

(i) ensure that each State or local ICAC task force shall, at a minimum, receive an amount equal to 0.5 percent of the funds available to award or otherwise distribute grants under subparagraph (A); and

(ii) take into consideration the following factors:

(I) The population of each State, as determined by the most recent decennial census performed by the Bureau of the Census.

(II) The number of investigative leads within the applicant’s jurisdiction generated by Operation Fairplay, the ICAC Data Network, the CyberTipline, and other sources.

(III) The number of criminal cases related to Internet crimes against children referred to a task force for Federal, State, or local prosecution.

(IV) The number of successful prosecutions of child exploitation cases by a task force.

(V) The amount of training, technical assistance, and public education or outreach by a task force related to the prevention, investigation, or prosecution of child exploitation offenses.

(VI) Such other criteria as the Attorney General determines demonstrate the level of need for additional resources by a task force.

(3) Distribution of remaining funds based on need

(A) In general

Any funds remaining from the total funds appropriated to carry out this section after funds have been made available to award or otherwise distribute formula grants under paragraph (2)(A) shall be distributed to State and local ICAC task forces based upon need, as set forth by criteria established by the Attorney General. Such criteria shall include the factors under paragraph (2)(B)(ii).

(B) Matching requirement

A State or local ICAC task force shall contribute matching non-Federal funds in an amount equal to not less than 25 percent of the amount of funds received by the State or local ICAC task force under subparagraph (A). A State or local ICAC task force that is not able or willing to contribute matching funds in accordance with this subparagraph shall not be eligible for funds under subparagraph (A).

(C) Waiver

The Attorney General may waive, in whole or in part, the matching requirement under subparagraph (B) if the State or local ICAC task force demonstrates good cause or financial hardship.
