
# Title 16— CONSERVATION
### CHAPTER 12B— BONNEVILLE PROJECT
#### § 832a. General administrative provisions
##### (a) Appointment of Administrator; powers and duties

The electric energy generated in the operation of the said Bonneville project shall be disposed of by the said administrator as provided in this chapter. The administrator shall be appointed by the Secretary of Energy; shall be responsible to said Secretary of Energy; and shall maintain his principal office at a place selected by him in the vicinity of the Bonneville project.

The Administrator shall, as in this chapter provided, make all arrangements for the sale and disposition of electric energy generated at Bonneville project not required for the operation of the dam and locks at such project and the navigation facilities employed in connection therewith. He shall act in consultation with the Secretary of Energy. The form of administration established in this chapter for the Bonneville project is intended to be provisional pending the establishment of a permanent administration for Bonneville and other projects in the Columbia River Basin. The Secretary of the Army shall install and maintain additional machinery, equipment, and facilities for the generation of electric energy at the Bonneville project when in the judgment of the administrator such additional generating facilities are desirable to meet actual or potential market requirements for such electric energy. The Secretary of the Army shall schedule the operations of the several electrical generating units and appurtenant equipment of the Bonneville project in accordance with the requirements of the administrator. The Secretary of the Army shall provide and maintain for the use of the administrator at said Bonneville project adequate station space and equipment, including such switches, switchboards, instruments, and dispatching facilities as may be required by the administrator for proper reception, handling, and dispatching of the electric energy produced at the said project, together with transformers and other equipment required by the administrator for the transmission of such energy from that place at suitable voltage to the markets which the administrator desires to serve.

The office of the Administrator of the Bonneville project is constituted an office in the Department of Energy and shall be under the jurisdiction and control of the Secretary of Energy. All functions vested in the Administrator of the Bonneville project under this chapter may be exercised by the Secretary of Energy and, subject to his supervision and direction, by the Administrator and other personnel of the project.
