
# Title 16— CONSERVATION
### CHAPTER 1— NATIONAL PARKS, MILITARY PARKS, MONUMENTS, AND SEASHORES
#### § 45f. Mineral King Valley addition authorized
##### (c) Acquisition of property; place and manner; owner’s right of use and occupancy for fixed term of years or life; election of term; fair market value; termination; notification; incompatible commercial uses; unitary parcels; access road, right-of-way, and protective measures; hardship sale offers; limitation of authority; State donated lands; report to Congressional committees

(1) Within the boundaries of the area added to the park pursuant to this section, the Secretary may acquire lands and interests in lands by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, exchange, or transfer from other Federal departments or agencies.

(2) Where the private use of any property acquired pursuant to this subsection would, in the judgment of the Secretary, be compatible with the purposes of this section, the Secretary may, as a condition of such acquisition, permit the owner or owners of such property to retain for themselves and their successors or assigns rights of use and occupancy. The owner shall reserve such rights and elect the term to be reserved on the date of acquisition of the property. Except for so much of the property as is donated, the Secretary shall pay to the owner the fair market value of the property on the date of its acquisition, less the fair market value on that date of the right retained by the owner.

(3) A right of use and occupancy retained pursuant to paragraph (2) may be terminated by the Secretary upon his determination that the property or any portion thereof is being used in a manner which is incompatible with the purposes of this section. Such right shall terminate by operation of law upon notification by the Secretary to the holder of the right of such determination and tendering to him the amount equal to the fair market value of that portion which remains unexpired as of the date of such tender. In the case of any property which was used for noncommercial purposes during the ten calendar years immediately preceding November 10, 1978 , the commercial use of such property subsequent to November 10, 1978 , shall be treated as incompatible with the purposes of this section. In the case of any property which was used for commercial purposes at any time during the ten calendar years immediately preceding November 10, 1978 , any substantial change or expansion of such commercial use subsequent to November 10, 1978 , without the express approval of the Secretary shall be treated as incompatible with such purposes.

(4) In exercising his authority to acquire property under this section, the Secretary shall give prompt and careful consideration to any offer made by an individual owning property within the park to sell such property if such individual notifies the Secretary that the continued ownership of such property is causing, or would result in, undue hardship. Nothing in this section, or in any other provision of law, shall prevent the Secretary from exercising his authority to acquire property referred to in this subsection at any time after November 10, 1978 .

(5) If any individual tract or parcel of land acquired is partly inside and partly outside the boundaries of the park the Secretary may, in order to minimize the payment of severance damages, acquire the whole of the tract or parcel.

(6) If the management plan prepared under subsection (e) provides for improved access to the area added to the park under this section, the Secretary is authorized to acquire, by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, exchange or transfer from other Federal departments or agencies, the area comprising the road from State Route 198 to, and within, the Mineral King Valley together with a right-of-way for such road of a width sufficient to include improvements to the road and all bridges, ditches, cuts, and fills appurtenant thereto, but not exceeding a maximum average width of two hundred feet. Property acquired from the State or any political subdivision thereof may be acquired by donation only. With regard to routes of access to and within the Mineral King Valley, the Secretary shall take such measures as are necessary to protect against the effects of siltation on the ecosystem of the park.

(7) The Secretary shall report to the committees of the Congress named in subsection (b)(1) the action taken by him pursuant to this subsection. Such report shall contain information sufficient to inform such committees of

(A) the acquisitions made by him pursuant to this subsection during the period covered by such report;

(B) his reasons why all of such property authorized to be acquired and not so acquired as of the date of such report, if any, have not been acquired; and

(C) his schedule of a timetable for the acquisition of such property referred to in subparagraph (B). Such report shall be submitted before the expiration of the second fiscal year beginning after the date on which the comprehensive management plan is submitted to the committees of Congress pursuant to subsection (e).
