
# Title 16— CONSERVATION
### CHAPTER 1— NATIONAL PARKS, MILITARY PARKS, MONUMENTS, AND SEASHORES
#### § 460ee. Establishment
##### (b) Transfer of responsibility for planning, acquisition, and development, and administrative jurisdiction to Secretary of the Interior; boundary revisions; acreage limitation

Effective upon November 15, 1990 , responsibility for all planning, acquisition, and development, as well as administrative jurisdiction over all Federal lands, water, interests therein, and improvements thereon, within the National Area is hereby transferred to the Secretary of the Interior. The Secretary may complete all acquisition and development activities in progress on November 15, 1990 , and the Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior may, by mutual agreement, provide for an orderly and phased assumption of responsibilities (including but not limited to land acquisition and the construction of necessary access roads, day-use facilities, campground facilities, lodges, and administrative buildings) and available funds by the Secretary of the Interior in furtherance of the purposes of this section. The Secretary of the Interior shall administer the National Area in accordance with the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1916 ( 39 Stat. 535 ; 16 U.S.C. 1 , 2–4), 2 as amended and supplemented. The authorities set forth in this section which were available to the Secretary immediately prior to November 15, 1990 , shall after November 15, 1990 , be available to the Secretary of the Interior. In the administration of the National Area the Secretary may utilize such statutory authority available to him for the conservation and management of wildlife and natural resources as he deems appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section. The Secretary of the Interior may, after transfer to him, revise the boundaries from time to time, but the total acreage within such boundaries shall not exceed one hundred and twenty-five thousand acres. Following such transfer the authorities available to the Secretary in subsection (c) of this section shall likewise be available to the Secretary of the Interior.
