
# Title 16— CONSERVATION
### CHAPTER 1— NATIONAL PARKS, MILITARY PARKS, MONUMENTS, AND SEASHORES
#### § 460y–8. Survey and investigation area
##### (a) Description

The survey and investigation area referred to in section 460y of this title is described as follows:

mount diablo meridian, california Township 24 north, range 19 west, sections 4 and 5. humboldt meridian, california Township 5 south, range 1 east, all sections in township. Township 5 south, range 2 east, section 6, lots 4 through 9; 16 through 21; and 24 through 26; section 7, lots 2 through 7; 10 through 15; section 18, lots 1 through 16; section 19, lots 1 through 16; southwest quarter northeast quarter and west half southeast quarter and sections 30 and 31; section 32, southwest quarter northeast quarter; south half northwest quarter; northwest quarter northwest quarter; southwest quarter and west half southeast quarter. Township 4 south, range 1 west, all sections in township. Township 4 south, range 1 east; section 4, south half; south half northeast quarter and south half northwest quarter; sections 5 through 9; 15 through 23; section 24, west half; section 25, west half; sections 26 through 35; section 36, lots 3 through 5 and 8 through 11 and southeast quarter. Township 4 south, range 2 east, section 31, west half southeast quarter and southwest quarter. Township 3 south, range 2 west, section 12, southeast quarter southeast quarter; sections 13 through 16 and 22 through 25. Township 3 south, range 1 west, section 9, southwest quarter southwest quarter; section 12, south half southeast quarter and south half southwest quarter; sections 13 through 36. Township 3 south, range 1 east, section 18, lots 1 through 4; section 19, lots 1 and 2, southwest quarter and west half southeast quarter; section 29, southwest quarter northwest quarter and west half southwest quarter; sections 30 and 31; section 32, west half. Township 2 south, range 2 west, section 31, north half of lot 2 of the southwest quarter (43.40 acres of public land withdrawn by Executive Order 5237 of December 10, 1929 ); and 22.8 acres of acquired fee lands described by metes and bounds in section 31, township 2 south, range 2 west, and section 36, township 2 south, range 3 west; and 31.27 acres of acquired easements described by metes and bounds across certain sections in township 2 south, ranges 2 and 3 west.
