
# Title 16— CONSERVATION
### CHAPTER 56A— PACIFIC SALMON FISHING
#### § 3632. United States Section
##### (g) Panel appointments

Panel members described in subsections (c)(2), (c)(3), (d)(2), and (e)(2) shall be appointed by the Governor of the applicable State. Panel members described in subsections (c)(4) and (e)(3) shall be appointed by the Secretary of the Interior from lists of nominations provided by the appropriate treaty Indian tribes. All other Panel members shall be appointed by the Secretary: Provided , That at least one member of the northern Panel shall be a voting member of the North Pacific Fishery Management Council, at least one member of the southern Panel shall be a voting member of the Pacific Fishery Management Council; and the Panel members described in subsections (c)(5), (d)(3), and (e)(4) shall be appointed from lists of nominations provided by the Governors of the applicable States. For the northern, southern, and Fraser River panels, the appointing authorities listed above may also designate an alternate Panel member, meeting the same qualifications and having the same term of office, to service in the absence of a Panel member appointed under this subsection. Panel members and alternate Panel members, other than the southern Panel member described in subsection (c)(5), shall serve four-year terms; except that the Secretary of State shall designate one-half of the initial appointments to each Panel as serving two-year terms. The southern Panel member described in subsection (c)(5) and the corresponding alternate shall each be appointed for one-year terms; the first such member shall be appointed from the commercial sector and an alternate shall be appointed from the recreational sector, with the alternate succeeding to the member position in the subsequent year; thereafter the member and alternate positions shall rotate between the commercial and recreational sectors on an annual basis. Any individual appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of any term of office shall be appointed for the remainder of that term. Panel members and alternates shall be eligible for reappointment and may attend all meetings of the relevant United States Panel Section.
