
# Title 16— CONSERVATION
### CHAPTER 1— NATIONAL PARKS, MILITARY PARKS, MONUMENTS, AND SEASHORES
#### § 460ff–1. Acquisition of land
##### (b) Manner of acquisition; scenic easements; donation of State lands; private lands essential to area; transfer of Federal property to Secretary

Within the boundaries of the park, the Secretary, after consultation with the Governor of the State of Ohio and the Advisory Commission established in section 460ff–4  1 of this title, may acquire lands, improvements, waters, or interests therein by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, exchange, or transfer. The Secretary may not acquire fee title to any lands included within the park in 1986 which are designated on the map referred to in subsection (a) as “Scenic Easement Acquisition Areas”. The Secretary may acquire only scenic easements in such designated lands. Unless consented to by the owner from which the easement is acquired, any such scenic easement may not prohibit any activity, the subdivision of any land, or the construction of any building or other facility if such activity, subdivision, or construction would have been permitted under laws and ordinances of the unit of local government in which such land was located on April 1, 1986 , as such laws and ordinances were in effect on such date. Any lands or interests owned therein, as well as any lands hereafter acquired, by the State of Ohio or any political subdivision thereof (including any park district or other public entity) within the boundaries of the park may be acquired only by donation or exchange for equal value. In determining the exchange value of lands of the State or any political subdivision thereof under this subsection, the Secretary shall not include in the value of those lands amounts paid from the land and water conservation fund, if any, for the original acquisition of those lands by the State or political subdivision. The Secretary shall not acquire privately owned lands which are held and used for public recreation uses unless he determines that such lands are essential to carry out the purposes of this subchapter. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, any Federal property located within the boundaries of the park may, with the concurrence of the agency having custody thereof, be transferred without transfer of funds to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary for the purposes of the park.
