
# Title 16— CONSERVATION
### CHAPTER 56A— PACIFIC SALMON FISHING
#### § 3645. Northern and Southern Funds; treaty implementation; additional authorization of appropriations
##### (a) Northern Fund and Southern Fund

(1) As provided in the June 30, 1999 , Agreement of the United States and Canada on the Treaty Between the Government of the United States and the Government of Canada Concerning Pacific Salmon, 1985 (hereafter referred to as the “1999 Pacific Salmon Treaty Agreement”) there are hereby established a Northern Boundary and Transboundary Rivers Restoration and Enhancement Fund (hereafter referred to as the “Northern Fund”) and a Southern Boundary Restoration and Enhancement Fund (hereafter referred to as the “Southern Fund”) to be held by the Pacific Salmon Commission. The Northern Fund and Southern Fund shall be invested in interest bearing accounts, bonds, securities, or other investments in order to achieve the highest annual yield consistent with protecting the principal of each Fund. Income from investments made pursuant to this paragraph shall be available until expended, without appropriation or fiscal year limitation, for programs and activities relating to salmon restoration and enhancement, salmon research, the conservation of salmon habitat, and implementation of the Pacific Salmon Treaty and related agreements. Amounts provided by grants under this subsection may be held in interest bearing accounts prior to the disbursement of such funds for program purposes, and any interest earned may be retained for program purposes without further appropriation. The Northern Fund and Southern Fund are subject to the laws governing Federal appropriations and funds and to unrestricted circulars of the Office of Management and Budget. Recipients of amounts from either Fund shall keep separate accounts and such records as are reasonably necessary to disclose the use of the funds as well as to facilitate effective audits.

(2) Fund Management.

(A) As provided in the 1999 Pacific Salmon Treaty Agreement, amounts made available from the Northern Fund pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be administered by a Northern Fund Committee, which shall be comprised of three representatives of the Government of Canada, and three representatives of the United States. The three United States representatives shall be the United States Commissioner and Alternate Commissioner appointed (or designated) from a list submitted by the Governor of Alaska for appointment to the Pacific Salmon Commission and the Regional Administrator of the National Marine Fisheries Service for the Alaska Region. Only programs and activities consistent with the purposes in paragraph (1) which affect the geographic area from Cape Caution, Canada to Cape Suckling, Alaska may be approved for funding by the Northern Fund Committee.

(B) As provided in the 1999 Pacific Salmon Treaty Agreement, amounts made available from the Southern Fund pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be administered by a Southern Fund Committee, which shall be comprised of three representatives of Canada and three representatives of the United States. The United States representatives shall be appointed by the Secretary of Commerce: one shall be selected from a list of three qualified individuals submitted by the Governors of the States of Washington and Oregon; one shall be selected from a list of three qualified individuals submitted by the treaty Indian tribes (as defined by the Secretary of Commerce); and one shall be the Regional Administrator of the National Marine Fisheries Service for the Northwest Region. Only programs and activities consistent with the purposes in paragraph (1) which affect the geographic area south of Cape Caution, Canada may be approved for funding by the Southern Fund Committee.
