
# Title 2— THE CONGRESS
### CHAPTER 65— SENATE OFFICERS AND ADMINISTRATION
#### § 6501. Appointment of consultants by Majority Leader, Minority Leader, Secretary of Senate, and Legislative Counsel of Senate; compensation
##### (a) In general

The Majority Leader and the Minority Leader, are each authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of not more than nine individual consultants, on a temporary or intermittent basis, at a daily rate of compensation not in excess of the per diem equivalent of the highest gross rate of annual compensation which may be paid to employees of a standing committee of the Senate. The President pro tempore of the Senate is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of not more than three individual consultants, on a temporary or intermittent basis, at a daily rate of compensation not in excess of that specified in the first sentence of this subsection. The President pro tempore emeritus of the Senate is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of one individual consultant, on a temporary or intermittent basis, at a daily rate of compensation not in excess of that specified in the first sentence of this subsection. The Secretary of the Senate is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of not more than two individual consultants, on a temporary or intermittent basis, at a daily rate of compensation not in excess of the per diem equivalent of the highest gross rate of annual compensation which may be paid to employees of a standing committee of the Senate. The Legislative Counsel of the Senate (subject to the approval of the President pro tempore) is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of not more than two consultants, on a temporary or intermittent basis, at a daily rate of compensation not in excess of that specified in the first sentence of this section. The provisions of sections 8344 and 8468 of title 5 shall not apply to any individual serving in a position under this authority. Expenditures under this authority shall be paid from the contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers approved by the President pro tempore, President pro tempore emeritus, Majority Leader, Minority Leader, Secretary of the Senate, or Legislative Counsel of the Senate, as the case may be.
