
# Title 43— PUBLIC LANDS
### CHAPTER 33— ALASKA NATIVE CLAIMS SETTLEMENT
#### § 1629a. Relinquishment by NANA Regional Corporation, Inc., of lands compact and contiguous to public lands in Cape Krusenstern National Monument
##### (b) Conveyance of lands to United States

NANA Regional Corporation, Inc. (“NANA”), may convey by quit-claim deed to the United States all of its interest in the surface and subsurface estate in any lands described in subsection (a) of this section: Provided, however , That NANA can relinquish only lands that are compact and contiguous to other public lands within the Krusenstern National Monument and, if the lands to be relinquished have been disturbed by NANA, the Secretary must first determine that such disturbance has not rendered the lands incompatible with Monument values. Whenever NANA executes a quit-claim deed pursuant to this section, it shall be entitled to designate and have conveyed to it any lands outside the boundaries of the Cape Krusenstern National Monument and any other conservation system unit, as established and defined by the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act ( Public Law 96–487 ; 94 Stat. 2371 , et seq.), covered by any of its pending selection applications filed under the entitlement provisions of either section 1611(b), 1611(c) or 1613(h)(8) of this title. Lands conveyed to NANA pursuant to this subsection shall be of a like estate and equal in acreage to that conveyed by NANA to the United States. The lands conveyed to NANA pursuant to this subsection shall be in exchange for the lands conveyed by NANA to the United States and there shall be no change in the charges previously made to NANA’s land entitlements with respect to the lands conveyed by NANA to the United States. Lands received by NANA pursuant to this subsection are Settlement Act lands.
