
# Title 49— TRANSPORTATION
## SUBTITLE VII— AVIATION PROGRAMS
### CHAPTER 449— SECURITY
#### § 44935. Employment standards and training
###### (f) Employment Standards for Screening Personnel.

(1) Screener requirements .

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an individual may not be deployed as a security screener unless that individual meets the following requirements:

(A) The individual shall possess a high school diploma, a general equivalency diploma, or experience that the Administrator has determined to be sufficient for the individual to perform the duties of the position.

(B) The individual shall possess basic aptitudes and physical abilities, including color perception, visual and aural acuity, physical coordination, and motor skills, to the following standards:

(i) Screeners operating screening equipment shall be able to distinguish on the screening equipment monitor the appropriate imaging standard specified by the Administrator.

(ii) Screeners operating any screening equipment shall be able to distinguish each color displayed on every type of screening equipment and explain what each color signifies.

(iii) Screeners shall be able to hear and respond to the spoken voice and to audible alarms generated by screening equipment in an active checkpoint environment.

(iv) Screeners performing physical searches or other related operations shall be able to efficiently and thoroughly manipulate and handle such baggage, containers, and other objects subject to security processing.

(v) Screeners who perform pat-downs or hand-held metal detector searches of individuals shall have sufficient dexterity and capability to thoroughly conduct those procedures over an individual’s entire body.

(C) The individual shall be able to read, speak, and write English well enough to

(i) carry out written and oral instructions regarding the proper performance of screening duties;

(ii) read English language identification media, credentials, airline tickets, and labels on items normally encountered in the screening process;

(iii) provide direction to and understand and answer questions from English-speaking individuals undergoing screening; and

(iv) write incident reports and statements and log entries into security records in the English language.

(D) The individual shall have satisfactorily completed all initial, recurrent, and appropriate specialized training required by the security program, except as provided in paragraph (3).

(2) Veterans preference .

The Administrator shall provide a preference for the hiring of an individual as a security screener if the individual is a member or former member of the armed forces and if the individual is entitled, under statute, to retired, retirement, or retainer pay on account of service as a member of the armed forces.

(3) Exceptions .

An individual who has not completed the training required by this section may be deployed during the on-the-job portion of training to perform functions if that individual

(A) is closely supervised; and

(B) does not make independent judgments as to whether individuals or property may enter a sterile area or aircraft without further inspection.

(4) Remedial training .

No individual employed as a security screener may perform a screening function after that individual has failed an operational test related to that function until that individual has successfully completed the remedial training specified in the security program.

(5) Annual proficiency review .

The Administrator shall provide that an annual evaluation of each individual assigned screening duties is conducted and documented. An individual employed as a security screener may not continue to be employed in that capacity unless the evaluation demonstrates that the individual

(A) continues to meet all qualifications and standards required to perform a screening function;

(B) has a satisfactory record of performance and attention to duty based on the standards and requirements in the security program; and

(C) demonstrates the current knowledge and skills necessary to courteously, vigilantly, and effectively perform screening functions.

(6) Operational testing .

In addition to the annual proficiency review conducted under paragraph (5), the Administrator shall provide for the operational testing of such personnel.
