
# Title 17— COPYRIGHTS
### CHAPTER 1— SUBJECT MATTER AND SCOPE OF COPYRIGHT
#### § 115. Scope of exclusive rights in nondramatic musical works: Compulsory license for making and distributing phonorecords
###### (e) Definitions .

As used in this section:

(1) Accrued interest .

The term “accrued interest” means interest accrued on accrued royalties, as described in subsection (d)(3)(H)(ii).

(2) Accrued royalties .

The term “accrued royalties” means royalties accrued for the reproduction or distribution of a musical work (or share thereof) in a covered activity, calculated in accordance with the applicable royalty rate under this section.

(3) Administrative assessment .

The term “administrative assessment” means the fee established pursuant to subsection (d)(7)(D).

(4) Audit .

The term “audit” means a royalty compliance examination to verify the accuracy of royalty payments, or the conduct of such an examination, as applicable.

(5) Blanket license .

The term “blanket license” means a compulsory license described in subsection (d)(1)(A) to engage in covered activities.

(6) Collective total costs .

The term “collective total costs”

(A) means the total costs of establishing, maintaining, and operating the mechanical licensing collective to fulfill its statutory functions, including

(i) startup costs;

(ii) financing, legal, audit, and insurance costs;

(iii) investments in information technology, infrastructure, and other long-term resources;

(iv) outside vendor costs;

(v) costs of licensing, royalty administration, and enforcement of rights;

(vi) costs of bad debt; and

(vii) costs of automated and manual efforts to identify and locate copyright owners of musical works (and shares of such musical works) and match sound recordings to the musical works the sound recordings embody; and

(B) does not include any added costs incurred by the mechanical licensing collective to provide services under voluntary licenses.

(7) Covered activity .

The term “covered activity” means the activity of making a digital phonorecord delivery of a musical work, including in the form of a permanent download, limited download, or interactive stream, where such activity qualifies for a compulsory license under this section.

(8) Digital music provider .

The term “digital music provider” means a person (or persons operating under the authority of that person) that, with respect to a service engaged in covered activities

(A) has a direct contractual, subscription, or other economic relationship with end users of the service, or, if no such relationship with end users exists, exercises direct control over the provision of the service to end users;

(B) is able to fully report on any revenues and consideration generated by the service; and

(C) is able to fully report on usage of sound recordings of musical works by the service (or procure such reporting).

(9) Digital licensee coordinator .

The term “digital licensee coordinator” means the entity most recently designated pursuant to subsection (d)(5).

(10) Digital phonorecord delivery .

The term “digital phonorecord delivery” means each individual delivery of a phonorecord by digital transmission of a sound recording that results in a specifically identifiable reproduction by or for any transmission recipient of a phonorecord of that sound recording, regardless of whether the digital transmission is also a public performance of the sound recording or any musical work embodied therein, and includes a permanent download, a limited download, or an interactive stream. A digital phonorecord delivery does not result from a real-time, noninteractive subscription transmission of a sound recording where no reproduction of the sound recording or the musical work embodied therein is made from the inception of the transmission through to its receipt by the transmission recipient in order to make the sound recording audible. A digital phonorecord delivery does not include the digital transmission of sounds accompanying a motion picture or other audiovisual work as defined in section 101.

(11) Enactment date .

The term “enactment date” means the date of the enactment of the Musical Works Modernization Act.

(12) Individual download license .

The term “individual download license” means a compulsory license obtained by a record company to make and distribute, or authorize the making and distribution of, permanent downloads embodying a specific individual musical work.

(13) Interactive stream .

The term “interactive stream” means a digital transmission of a sound recording of a musical work in the form of a stream, where the performance of the sound recording by means of such transmission is not exempt under section 114(d)(1) and does not in itself, or as a result of a program in which it is included, qualify for statutory licensing under section 114(d)(2). An interactive stream is a digital phonorecord delivery.

(14) Interested .

The term “interested”, as applied to a party seeking to participate in a proceeding under subsection (d)(7)(D), is a party as to which the Copyright Royalty Judges have not determined that the party lacks a significant interest in such proceeding.

(15) License availability date .

The term “license availability date” means January 1 following the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the enactment date.

(16) Limited download .

The term “limited download” means a digital transmission of a sound recording of a musical work in the form of a download, where such sound recording is accessible for listening only for a limited amount of time or specified number of times.

(17) Matched .

The term “matched”, as applied to a musical work (or share thereof), means that the copyright owner of such work (or share thereof) has been identified and located.

(18) Mechanical licensing collective .

The term “mechanical licensing collective” means the entity most recently designated as such by the Register of Copyrights under subsection (d)(3).

(19) Mechanical licensing collective budget .

The term “mechanical licensing collective budget” means a statement of the financial position of the mechanical licensing collective for a fiscal year or quarter thereof based on estimates of expenditures during the period and proposals for financing those expenditures, including a calculation of the collective total costs.

(20) Musical works database .

The term “musical works database” means the database described in subsection (d)(3)(E).

(21) Nonprofit .

The term “nonprofit” means a nonprofit created or organized in a State.

(22) Notice of license .

The term “notice of license” means a notice from a digital music provider provided under subsection (d)(2)(A) for purposes of obtaining a blanket license.

(23) Notice of nonblanket activity .

The term “notice of nonblanket activity” means a notice from a significant nonblanket licensee provided under subsection (d)(6)(A) for purposes of notifying the mechanical licensing collective that the licensee has been engaging in covered activities.

(24) Permanent download .

The term “permanent download” means a digital transmission of a sound recording of a musical work in the form of a download, where such sound recording is accessible for listening without restriction as to the amount of time or number of times it may be accessed.

(25) Qualified auditor .

The term “qualified auditor” means an independent, certified public accountant with experience performing music royalty audits.

(26) Record company .

The term “record company” means an entity that invests in, produces, and markets sound recordings of musical works, and distributes such sound recordings for remuneration through multiple sales channels, including a corporate affiliate of such an entity engaged in distribution of sound recordings.

(27) Report of usage .

The term “report of usage” means a report reflecting an entity’s usage of musical works in covered activities described in subsection (d)(4)(A).

(28) Required matching efforts .

The term “required matching efforts” means efforts to identify and locate copyright owners of musical works as described in subsection (d)(10)(B)(i).

(29) Service .

The term “service”, as used in relation to covered activities, means any site, facility, or offering by or through which sound recordings of musical works are digitally transmitted to members of the public.

(30) Share .

The term “share”, as applied to a musical work, means a fractional ownership interest in such work.

(31) Significant nonblanket licensee .

The term “significant nonblanket licensee”

(A) means an entity, including a group of entities under common ownership or control that, acting under the authority of one or more voluntary licenses or individual download licenses, offers a service engaged in covered activities, and such entity or group of entities

(i) is not currently operating under a blanket license and is not obligated to provide reports of usage reflecting covered activities under subsection (d)(4)(A);

(ii) has a direct contractual, subscription, or other economic relationship with end users of the service or, if no such relationship with end users exists, exercises direct control over the provision of the service to end users; and

(iii) either

(I) on any day in a calendar month, makes more than 5,000 different sound recordings of musical works available through such service; or

(II) derives revenue or other consideration in connection with such covered activities greater than $50,000 in a calendar month, or total revenue or other consideration greater than $500,000 during the preceding 12 calendar months; and

(B) does not include

(i) an entity whose covered activity consists solely of free-to-the-user streams of segments of sound recordings of musical works that do not exceed 90 seconds in length, are offered only to facilitate a licensed use of musical works that is not a covered activity, and have no revenue directly attributable to such streams constituting the covered activity; or

(ii) a “public broadcasting entity” as defined in section 118(f).

(32) Songwriter .

The term “songwriter” means the author of all or part of a musical work, including a composer or lyricist.

(33) State .

The term “State” means each State of the United States, the District of Columbia, and each territory or possession of the United States.

(34) Unclaimed accrued royalties .

The term “unclaimed accrued royalties” means accrued royalties eligible for distribution under subsection (d)(3)(J).

(35) Unmatched .

The term “unmatched”, as applied to a musical work (or share thereof), means that the copyright owner of such work (or share thereof) has not been identified or located.

(36) Voluntary license .

The term “voluntary license” means a license for use of a musical work (or share thereof) other than a compulsory license obtained under this section.
