
# Title 44— PUBLIC PRINTING AND DOCUMENTS
### CHAPTER 3— GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE
#### § 305. Director of the Government Publishing Office: employees; pay

(a) The Director of the Government Publishing Office may employ journeymen, apprentices, laborers, and other persons necessary for the work of the Government Publishing Office at rates of wages and salaries, including compensation for night and overtime work, the Director considers for the interest of the Government and just to the persons employed, except as otherwise provided by this section. The Director of the Government Publishing Office may not employ more persons than the necessities of the public work require nor more than four hundred apprentices at one time. The minimum pay of journeymen printers, pressmen, and bookbinders employed in the Government Publishing Office shall be at the rate of 90 cents an hour for the time actually employed. Except as provided by the preceding part of this section the rate of wages, including compensation for night and overtime work, for more than ten employees of the same occupation shall be determined by a conference between the Director of the Government Publishing Office and a committee selected by the trades affected, and the rates and compensation so agreed upon shall become effective upon approval by the Joint Committee on Printing. When the Director of the Government Publishing Office and the committee representing the trade fail to agree as to wages, salaries, and compensation, either party may appeal to the Joint Committee on Printing, and the decision of the Joint Committee is final. The wages, salaries, and compensation so determined are not subject to change oftener than once a year.

(b) The Director of the Government Publishing Office may grant an employee paid on an annual basis compensatory time off from duty instead of overtime pay for overtime work.
