
# Title 42— THE PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
### CHAPTER 80— PUBLIC WORKS EMPLOYMENT
#### § 6735. Program studies and recommendations; evaluation; countercyclical study

(a) The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct an investigation of the impact which emergency support grants have on the operations of State and local governments and on the national economy. Before and during the course of such investigation the Comptroller General shall consult with and coordinate his activities with the Congressional Budget Office and the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations. The Comptroller General shall report the results of such investigation to the Congress within one year after July 22, 1976 , together with an evaluation of the macroeconomic effect of the program established under this subchapter and any recommendations for improving the effectiveness of similar programs. All officers and employees of the United States shall make available all information, reports, data, and any other material necessary to carry out the provisions of this subsection to the Comptroller General upon a reasonable request.

(b) The Congressional Budget Office and the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations shall conduct a study to determine the most effective means by which the Federal Government can stabilize the national economy during periods of rapid economic growth and high inflation through programs directed toward State and local governments. Such study shall include a comparison of the effectiveness of alternative factors for triggering and measuring the extent of the fiscal coordination problem addressed by this program, and the effect of the recession on State and local expenditures. Before and during the course of such study, the Congressional Budget Office and the Advisory Commission shall consult with and coordinate their activities with the Comptroller General of the United States. The Congressional Budget Office and the Advisory Commission shall report the results of such study to Congress within two years after July 22, 1976 . Such study shall include the opinions of the Comptroller General with respect to such study.
