
# Title 42— THE PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
### CHAPTER 6A— PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE
#### § 300e–7. General provisions relating to loan guarantees and loans
##### (d) Loan guarantee fund

(1) There is established in the Treasury a loan guarantee fund (hereinafter in this subsection referred to as the “fund”) which shall be available to the Secretary without fiscal year limitation, in such amounts as may be specified from time to time in appropriation Acts, to enable him to discharge his responsibilities under loan guarantees issued by him under this subchapter and to take the action authorized by subsection (f). There are authorized to be appropriated from time to time such amounts as may be necessary to provide the sums required for the fund. To the extent authorized in appropriation Acts, there shall also be deposited in the fund amounts received by the Secretary in connection with loan guarantees under this subchapter and other property or assets derived by him from his operations respecting such loan guarantees, including any money derived from the sale of assets.

(2) If at any time the sums in the funds are insufficient to enable the Secretary to discharge his responsibilities under guarantees issued by him before October 1, 1986 , under this subchapter and to take the action authorized by subsection (f), he is authorized to issue to the Secretary of the Treasury notes or other obligations in such forms and denominations, bearing such maturities, and subject to such terms and conditions, as may be prescribed by the Secretary with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury. Such notes or other obligations shall bear interest at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consideration the current average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturities during the month preceding the issuance of the notes or other obligations. The Secretary of the Treasury shall purchase any notes and other obligations issued under this paragraph and for that purpose he may use as a public debt transaction the proceeds from the sale of any securities issued under chapter 31 of title 31, and the purposes for which the securities may be issued under that chapter are extended to include any purchase of such notes and obligations. The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time sell any of the notes or other obligations acquired by him under this paragraph. All redemptions, purchases, and sales by the Secretary of the Treasury of such notes or other obligations shall be treated as public debt transactions of the United States. Sums borrowed under this paragraph shall be deposited in the fund and redemption of such notes and obligations shall be made by the Secretary from the fund.
