
# Title 42— THE PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
### CHAPTER 13A— CHILD NUTRITION
#### § 1786. Special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children
##### (k) National Advisory Council on Maternal, Infant, and Fetal Nutrition; establishment; membership; term; officers; meetings; quorum; technical assistance by Secretary

(1) There is hereby established a National Advisory Council on Maternal, Infant, and Fetal Nutrition (referred to in this subsection as the “Council”) composed of 24 members appointed by the Secretary. One member shall be a State director of a program under this section; one member shall be a State official responsible for a commodity supplemental food program under section 1304 of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977; one member shall be a State fiscal officer of a program under this section (or the equivalent thereof); one member shall be a State health officer (or the equivalent thereof); one member shall be a local agency director of a program under this section in an urban area; one member shall be a local agency director of a program under this section in a rural area; one member shall be a project director of a commodity supplemental food program; one member shall be a State public health nutrition director (or the equivalent thereof); one member shall be a representative of an organization serving migrants; one member shall be an official from a State agency predominantly serving Indians; three members shall be parent participants of a program under this section or of a commodity supplemental food program; one member shall be a pediatrician; one member shall be an obstetrician; one member shall be a representative of a nonprofit public interest organization that has experience with and knowledge of the special supplemental nutrition program; one member shall be a person involved at the retail sales level of food in the special supplemental nutrition program; two members shall be officials of the Department of Health and Human Services appointed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services; two members shall be officials of the Department of Agriculture appointed by the Secretary; 1 member shall be an expert in the promotion of breast feeding; one member shall be an expert in drug abuse education and prevention; and one member shall be an expert in alcohol abuse education and prevention.

(2) Members of the Council appointed from outside the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Health and Human Services shall be appointed for terms not exceeding three years. State and local officials shall serve only during their official tenure, and the tenure of parent participants shall not exceed two years. Persons appointed to complete an unexpired term shall serve only for the remainder of such term.

(3) The Council shall elect a Chairman and a Vice Chairman. The Council shall meet at the call of the Chairman, but shall meet at least once a year. Eleven members shall constitute a quorum.

(4) The Secretary shall provide the Council with such technical and other assistance, including secretarial and clerical assistance, as may be required to carry out its functions.

(5) Members of the Council shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for necessary travel and subsistence expenses incurred by them in the performance of the duties of the Council. Parent participant members of the Council, in addition to reimbursement for necessary travel and subsistence, shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, be compensated in advance for other personal expenses related to participation on the Council, such as child care expenses and lost wages during scheduled Council meetings.
