
# Title 42— THE PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
### CHAPTER 69— COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
#### § 5306. Allocation and distribution of funds
##### (a) Amounts allocated to Indian tribes, discretionary fund, and metropolitan cities and urban counties; limitations on amount of annual grants

(1) For each fiscal year, of the amount approved in appropriation Acts under section 5303 of this title for grants for such fiscal year (excluding the amounts provided for use in accordance with section 5307 of this title ), the Secretary shall reserve for grants to Indian tribes 1 percent of the amount appropriated under such section. The Secretary shall provide for distribution of amounts under this paragraph to Indian tribes on the basis of a competition conducted pursuant to specific criteria for the selection of Indian tribes to receive such amounts. The criteria shall be contained in a regulation promulgated by the Secretary after notice and public comment. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, such grants to Indian tribes shall not be subject to the requirements of section 5304 of this title , except subsections (f), (g), and (k) of such section.

(2) For each fiscal year, of the amount approved in appropriation Acts under section 5303 of this title for grants for such fiscal year (excluding the amounts provided for use in accordance with section 5307 of this title ), the Secretary shall reserve for grants to insular areas $7,000,000. The Secretary shall provide for distribution of amounts under this paragraph to insular areas on the basis of the ratio of the population of each insular area to the population of all insular areas. In determining the distribution of amounts to insular areas, the Secretary may also include other statistical criteria as data become available from the Bureau of the Census, but only if such criteria are contained in a regulation promulgated by the Secretary after notice and public comment.

(3) After reserving such amounts for Indian tribes under paragraph (1) and after reserving such amounts for insular areas under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall allocate amounts provided for use under section 5307 of this title .

(4) Of the amount remaining after allocations pursuant to paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), 70 percent shall be allocated by the Secretary to metropolitan cities and urban counties. Except as otherwise specifically authorized, each metropolitan city and urban county shall be entitled to an annual grant from such allocation in an amount not exceeding its basic amount computed pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (b).
