
# Title 42— THE PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
### CHAPTER 7— SOCIAL SECURITY
#### § 1395u. Provisions relating to the administration of part B
##### (h) Participating physician or supplier; agreement with Secretary; publication of directories; availability; inclusion of program in explanation of benefits; payment of claims on assignment-related basis

(1) Any physician or supplier may voluntarily enter into an agreement with the Secretary to become a participating physician or supplier. For purposes of this section, the term “participating physician or supplier” means a physician or supplier (excluding any provider of services) who, before the beginning of any year beginning with 1984, enters into an agreement with the Secretary which provides that such physician or supplier will accept payment under this part on an assignment-related basis for all items and services furnished to individuals enrolled under this part during such year. In the case of a newly licensed physician or a physician who begins a practice in a new area, or in the case of a new supplier who begins a new business, or in such similar cases as the Secretary may specify, such physician or supplier may enter into such an agreement after the beginning of a year, for items and services furnished during the remainder of the year.

(2) The Secretary shall maintain a toll-free telephone number or numbers at which individuals enrolled under this part may obtain the names, addresses, specialty, and telephone numbers of participating physicians and suppliers and may request a copy of an appropriate directory published under paragraph (4). The Secretary shall, without charge, mail a copy of such directory upon such a request.

(3)

(A) In any case in which  2 medicare administrative contractor having a contract under section 1395kk–1 of this title that provides for making payments under this part is able to develop a system for the electronic transmission to such contractor of bills for services, such contractor shall establish direct lines for the electronic receipt of claims from participating physicians and suppliers.

(B) The Secretary shall establish a procedure whereby an individual enrolled under this part may assign, in an appropriate manner on the form claiming a benefit under this part for an item or service furnished by a participating physician or supplier, the individual’s rights of payment under a medicare supplemental policy (described in section 1395ss(g)(1) of this title ) in which the individual is enrolled. In the case such an assignment is properly executed and a payment determination is made by a medicare administrative contractor with a contract under this section, the contractor shall transmit to the private entity issuing the medicare supplemental policy notice of such fact and shall include an explanation of benefits and any additional information that the Secretary may determine to be appropriate in order to enable the entity to decide whether (and the amount of) any payment is due under the policy. The Secretary may enter into agreements for the transmittal of such information to entities electronically. The Secretary shall impose user fees for the transmittal of information under this subparagraph by a medicare administrative contractor, whether electronically or otherwise, and such user fees shall be collected and retained by the contractor.

(4) At the beginning of each year the Secretary shall publish directories (for appropriate local geographic areas) containing the name, address, and specialty of all participating physicians and suppliers (as defined in paragraph (1)) for that area for that year. Each directory shall be organized to make the most useful presentation of the information (as determined by the Secretary) for individuals enrolled under this part. Each participating physician directory for an area shall provide an alphabetical listing of all participating physicians practicing in the area and an alphabetical listing by locality and specialty of such physicians.

(5)

(A) The Secretary shall promptly notify individuals enrolled under this part through an annual mailing of the participation program under this subsection and the publication and availability of the directories and shall make the appropriate area directory or directories available in each district and branch office of the Social Security Administration, in the offices of medicare administrative contractors, and to senior citizen organizations.
