
# Title 42— THE PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
### CHAPTER 134— ENERGY POLICY
#### § 13316. Innovative renewable energy technology transfer program
##### (a) Establishment of program

The Secretary, through the Agency for International Development, and in consultation with the other members of the interagency working group established under section 6276(d) of this title (in this section referred to as the “interagency working group”), shall establish a renewable energy technology transfer program to carry out the purposes described in subsection (b). Within 150 days after October 24, 1992 , the Secretary and the Administrator of the Agency for International Development shall enter into a written agreement to carry out this section. The agreement shall establish a procedure for resolving any disputes between the Secretary and the Administrator regarding the implementation of specific projects. With respect to countries not assisted by the Agency for International Development, the Secretary may enter into agreements with other appropriate Federal agencies. If the Secretary and the Administrator, or the Secretary and an agency described in the previous sentence, are unable to reach an agreement, each shall send a memorandum to the President outlining an appropriate agreement. Within 90 days after receipt of either memorandum, the President shall determine which version of the agreement shall be in effect. Any agreement entered into under this subsection shall be provided to the appropriate committees of the Congress and made available to the public.
