
# Title 42— THE PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
### CHAPTER 77— ENERGY CONSERVATION
#### § 6272. International voluntary agreements
##### (d) Participation of Attorney General and Federal Trade Commission in development and carrying out of voluntary agreements and plans of action

(1) The Attorney General and the Federal Trade Commission shall participate from the beginning in the development, and when practicable, in the carrying out of voluntary agreements and plans of action authorized under this section. Each may propose any alternative which would avoid or overcome, to the greatest extent practicable, possible anticompetitive effects while achieving substantially the purposes of this part. A voluntary agreement or plan of action under this section may not be carried out unless approved by the Attorney General, after consultation with the Federal Trade Commission. Prior to the expiration of the period determined under paragraph (2), the Federal Trade Commission shall transmit to the Attorney General its views as to whether such an agreement or plan of action should be approved, and shall publish such views in the Federal Register. The Attorney General, in consultation with the Federal Trade Commission, the Secretary of State, and the Secretary, shall have the right to review, amend, modify, disapprove, or revoke, on his own motion or upon the request of the Federal Trade Commission or any interested person, any voluntary agreement or plan of action at any time, and, if revoked, thereby withdraw prospectively any immunity which may be conferred by subsection (f) or (j).

(2) Any voluntary agreement or plan of action entered into pursuant to this section shall be submitted in writing to the Attorney General and the Federal Trade Commission 20 days before being implemented; except that during an international energy supply emergency, the Secretary, subject to approval of the Attorney General, may reduce such 20-day period. Any such agreement or plan of action shall be available for public inspection and copying, except that a plan of action shall be so available only to the extent to which records or transcripts are so available as provided in the last sentence of subsection (c)(3). Any action taken pursuant to such voluntary agreement or plan of action shall be reported to the Attorney General and the Federal Trade Commission pursuant to such regulations as shall be prescribed under paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (e).

(3) A plan of action may not be approved by the Attorney General under this subsection unless such plan (A) describes the types of substantive actions which may be taken under the plan, and (B) is as specific in its description of proposed substantive actions as is reasonable in light of circumstances known at the time of approval.
