
# Title 12— BANKS AND BANKING
### CHAPTER 11— FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS
#### § 1431. Powers and duties of banks
##### (i) Treasury purchase of banks’ obligations; exercise of authority

The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized in his discretion to purchase any obligations issued pursuant to this section, as heretofore, now, or hereafter in force and for such purpose the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to use as a public-debt transaction the proceeds of the sale of any securities hereafter issued under chapter 31 of title 31, as now or hereafter in force, and the purposes for which securities may be issued under chapter 31 of title 31, as now or hereafter in force, are extended to include such purchases. The Secretary of the Treasury may, at any time, sell, upon such terms and conditions and at such price or prices as he shall determine, any of the obligations acquired by him under this subsection. All redemptions, purchases, and sales by the Secretary of the Treasury of such obligations under this subsection shall be treated as public-debt transactions of the United States. The Secretary of the Treasury shall not at any time purchase any obligations under this paragraph if such purchase would increase the aggregate principal amount of his then outstanding holdings of such obligations under this paragraph to an amount greater than $4,000,000,000. Each purchase of obligations by the Secretary of the Treasury under this subsection shall be upon terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury and shall bear such rate of interest as may be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury taking into consideration the current average market yield for the month preceding the month of such purchase on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States.

In addition to obligations authorized to be purchased by the preceding paragraph, the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to purchase any obligations issued pursuant to this section in amounts not to exceed $2,000,000,000. The authority provided in this paragraph shall expire August 10, 1975 .

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the authority provided in this subsection may be exercised during any calendar quarter beginning after October 28, 1974 , only if the Secretary of the Treasury and the Chairperson of the Director  1 certify to the Congress that (1) alternative means cannot be effectively employed to permit members of the Federal Home Loan Bank System to continue to supply reasonable amounts of funds to the mortgage market, and (2) the ability to supply such funds is substantially impaired because of monetary stringency and a high level of interest rates. Any funds borrowed under this subsection shall be repaid by the Home Loan Banks at the earliest practicable date.
