
# Title 12— BANKS AND BANKING
### CHAPTER 13— NATIONAL HOUSING
#### § 1701y. National Homeownership Foundation
##### (b) Board of Directors; appointment of members; Chairman; terms of office; reappointment; compensation and travel expenses; Executive Director and other officers; vacancies; by-laws

(1) The Foundation shall have a Board of Directors consisting of eighteen members, fifteen of whom shall be appointed by the President of the United States, with the advice and consent of the Senate. The other three members shall be, ex officio, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity. The President shall appoint one of the fifteen appointed members to serve as Chairman of the Board during his term of office as a member.

(2) Within thirty days after August 1, 1968 , the President shall appoint the fifteen appointed members of the Board. Not more than five of such members shall, at the time of their appointment, be serving full time as officers or employees of the Federal Government, or as officers or employees of any State or local government. Each appointed member of the Board shall hold office for a term of three years, except that (A) any member appointed to fill a vacancy prior to the expiration of the term for which his predecessor was appointed shall be appointed for the remainder of such term, and (B) the terms of the members first taking office shall expire, as designated by the President at the time of appointment, five at the end of the first year, five at the end of the second year, and five at the end of the third year after the date of appointment. Members of the Board, however appointed, shall be eligible for reappointment, but at no time shall there be more than five members of the Board who at the time of their appointment or reappointment were full-time officers or employees of the Federal Government or of any State or local government.

(3) Appointed members of the Board who are not employees of the Federal Government, while attending meetings or conferences of the Board or otherwise serving on business of the Board, shall be entitled to receive compensation at rates fixed by the President, but not exceeding $100 per day, including travel time, and while so serving away from their homes or regular places of business they may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703 of title 5 for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.

(4) The Board shall appoint an Executive Director of the Foundation. The Executive Director shall be the chief executive officer of the Foundation and shall serve at the pleasure of the Board, and all other executive officers and employees of the Board shall be responsible to him. The Board shall also cause to be appointed a secretary, a treasurer, and such other officers as may be necessary to conduct properly the business of the Foundation, and shall provide for filling vacancies in such offices.

(5) The Board shall adopt bylaws for the Foundation which shall be made available for public inspection upon request.
