
# Title 12— BANKS AND BANKING
### CHAPTER 14— FEDERAL CREDIT UNIONS
#### § 1786. Termination of insured credit union status; cease and desist orders; removal or suspension from office; procedure
##### (d) Continuation of insurance for one year; approval of conversion of status; procedure subsequent to approval; reduction of premium charges

(1) After the termination of the insured status of any credit union as provided under subsection (a)(1) or (b) of this section, insurance of its member accounts to the extent that they were insured on the effective date of such termination, less any amounts thereafter withdrawn which reduce the accounts below the amount covered by insurance on the effective date of such termination, shall continue for a period of one year, but no shares issued by the credit union or deposits made after the date of such termination shall be insured by the Board. The credit union shall continue to maintain its deposit with and pay premiums to the Board during such period as in the case of an insured credit union and the Board shall have the right to examine such credit union from time to time during the period during which such insurance continues. Such credit union shall, in all other respects, be subject to the duties and obligations of an insured credit union for the period of one year from the date of such termination. In the event that such credit union shall be closed for liquidation within such period of one year, the Board shall have the same powers and rights with respect to such credit union as in the case of an insured credit union. Notwithstanding the above, when an insured credit union’s insured status is terminated and the credit union subsequently obtains comparable insurance coverage from another source, insurance of its accounts by the fund may cease immediately upon the effective date of such comparable coverage by mutual consent of the credit union and the Board.

(2) No credit union shall convert from status as an insured credit union under this chapter as provided under subsection (a)(2) of this section until the proposition for such conversion has been approved by a majority of all the directors of the credit union, and by affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the credit union who vote on the proposition in a vote in which at least 20 per centum of the total membership of the credit union participates. Following approval by the directors, written notice of the proposition and of the date set for the membership vote shall be delivered in person to each member, or mailed to each member at the address for such member appearing on the rec­ords of the credit union, not more than thirty nor less than seven days prior to such date. The membership shall be given the opportunity to vote by mail ballot. If the proposition is approved by the membership, prompt and reasonable notice of insurance conversion shall be given to all members.

(3) In the event of a conversion of a credit union from status as an insured credit union under this chapter as provided under subsection (a)(2) of this section, premium charges payable under section 1782(c) of this title shall be reduced by an amount proportionate to the number of calendar months for which the converting credit union will no longer be insured under this chapter. As long as a converting credit union remains insured under this chapter, it shall remain subject to all of the provisions of this subchapter.
