
# Title 12— BANKS AND BANKING
### CHAPTER 13— NATIONAL HOUSING
#### § 1701y. National Homeownership Foundation
##### (g) Audit of financial transaction; access to records; report of audit; contents of report

(1) The financial transactions of the Foundation shall be audited by the Government Accountability Office in accordance with the principles and procedures applicable to commercial corporate transactions and under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States. The representatives of the Government Accountability Office shall have access to all books, accounts, financial rec­ords, reports, files, and all other papers, things, or property belonging to or in use by the Foundation and necessary to facilitate the audit, and they shall be afforded full facilities for verifying transactions with the balances or securities held by depositories, fiscal agents, and custodians. The audit shall cover the fiscal year corresponding to that of the United States Government.

(2) A report of each such audit shall be made by the Comptroller General to the Congress not later than six and one-half months following the close of the last year covered by such audit. The report shall set forth the scope of the audit and shall include a statement of assets and liabilities, capital, and surplus or deficit; a statement of sources and application of funds; and such comments and information as may be deemed necessary to keep the Congress informed of the operations and financial condition of the Foundation, together with such recommendations with respect thereto as the Comptroller General may deem advisable. The report shall also show specifically any program, expenditure, or other financial transaction or undertaking, observed in the course of the audit, which, in the opinion of the Comptroller General, has been carried on or made without authority of law. A copy of each report shall be furnished to the President and to the Foundation at the time submitted to the Congress.
