
# Title 12— BANKS AND BANKING
### CHAPTER 13— NATIONAL HOUSING
#### § 1717. Federal National Mortgage Association and Government National Mortgage Association
##### (c) Administration of trusts; obligations of departments and agencies of the United States; exemption of interest income from taxation; authorization of appropriations for differential reimbursements

(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter or of any other law, the Association is authorized under section 1721 of this title to create, accept, execute, and otherwise administer in all respects such trusts, receiverships, conservatorships, liquidating or other agencies, or other fiduciary and representative undertakings and activities, hereinafter in this subsection called “trusts”, as might be appropriate for financing purposes; and in relation thereto the Association may acquire, hold and manage, dispose of, and otherwise deal in any mortgages or other types of obligations in which any department or agency of the United States listed in paragraph (2) of this subsection may have a financial interest. The Association may join in any such undertakings and activities, hereinafter in this subsection called “trusts”; notwithstanding that it is also serving in a fiduciary or representative capacity; and is authorized to guarantee any participations or other instruments, whether evidence of property rights or debt, issued for such financing purposes. Participations or other instruments issued by the Association pursuant to this subsection shall to the same extent as securities which are direct obligations of or obligations guaranteed as to principal or interest by the United States be deemed to be exempt securities within the meaning of laws administered by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The amounts of any mortgages and their obligations acquired by the Association under section 1721 of this title , pursuant to this subsection, shall not be included in the total amounts set forth in section 1721(c) of this title .

(2) Subject to the limitations provided in paragraph (4) of this subsection, one or more trusts may be established as provided in this subsection by each of the following departments or agencies:

(A) The Farmers Home Administration of the Department of Agriculture, but only with respect to operating loans, direct farm ownership loans, direct housing loans, and direct soil and water loans. Such trusts may not be established with respect to loans for housing for the elderly under sections 502 and 515(a) of the Housing Act of 1949 [ 42 U.S.C. 1472 and 1485(a)], nor with respect to loans for nonfarm recreational development.

(B) The Department of Education, but only with respect to loans made by the Secretary of Education for construction of academic facilities, and loans to help finance student loan programs.

(C) The Department of Housing and Urban Development.

(D) The Department of Veterans Affairs.

(E) The Export-Import Bank.

(F) The Small Business Administration. The head of each such department or agency, hereinafter in this subsection called the “trustor,” is authorized to set aside a part or all of any obligations held by the trustor and subject them to a trust or trusts and, incident thereto, shall guarantee to the trustee timely payment thereof. The trust instrument may provide for the issuance and sale of beneficial interests or participations, by the trustee, in such obligations or in the right to receive interest and principal collections therefrom; and may provide for the substitution or withdrawal of such obligations, or for the substitution of cash for obligations. The trust or trusts shall be exempt from all taxation. The trust instrument may also contain other appropriate provisions in keeping with the purposes of this subsection. The Association shall be named and shall act as trustee of any such trusts and, for the purposes thereof, the title to such obligations shall be deemed to have passed to the Association in trust. The trust instrument shall provide that custody, control, and administration of the obligations shall remain in the trustor subjecting the obligations to the trust, subject to transfer to the trustee in event of default or probable default, as determined by the trustee, in the payment of principal and interest of the beneficial interests or participations. Collections from obligations subject to the trust shall be dealt with as provided in the instrument creating the trust. The trust instrument shall provide that the trustee will promptly pay to the trustor the full net proceeds of any sale of beneficial interests or participations to the extent they are based upon such obligations or collections. Such proceeds shall be dealt with as otherwise provided by law for sales or repayment of such obligations. The effect of both past and future sales of any issue of beneficial interests or participations shall be the same, to the extent of the principal of such issue, as the direct sale with recourse of the obligations subject to the trust. Any trustor creating a trust or trusts hereunder is authorized to purchase, through the facilities of the trustee, outstanding beneficial interests or participations to the extent of the amount of the trustor’s responsibility to the trustee on beneficial interests or participations outstanding, and to pay the trustor’s proper share of the costs and expenses incurred by the Association as trustee pursuant to the trust instrument.

(3) When any trustor guarantees to the trustee the timely payment of obligations the trustor subjects to a trust pursuant to this subsection, and it becomes necessary for such trustor to meet his responsibilities under such guaranty, the trustor is authorized to fulfill such guaranty.

(4) Beneficial interests or participations shall not be issued for the account of any trustor in an aggregate principal amount greater than is authorized with respect to such trustor in an appropriation Act. Any such authorization shall remain available only for the fiscal year for which it is granted and for the succeeding fiscal year.

(5) The Association, as trustee, is authorized to issue and sell beneficial interests or participations under this subsection, notwithstanding that there may be an insufficiency in aggregate receipts from obligations subject to the related trust to provide for the payment by the trustee (on a timely basis out of current receipts or otherwise) of all interest or principal on such interests or participations (after provision for all costs and expenses incurred by the trustee, fairly prorated among trustors). There are authorized to be appropriated without fiscal year limitation such sums as may be necessary to enable any trustor to pay the trustee such insufficiency as the trustee may require on account of outstanding beneficial interests or participations authorized to be issued pursuant to paragraph (4) of this subsection. Such trustor shall make timely payments to the trustee from such appropriations, subject to and in accord with the trust instrument. In the event that the insufficiency required by the trustee is on account of principal maturities of outstanding beneficial interests or participations authorized to be issued pursuant to paragraph (4) of this subsection, or pursuant hereto, the trustee is authorized to elect to issue additional beneficial interests or participations for refinancing purposes in lieu of requiring any trustor or trustors to make payments to the trustee from appropriated funds or other sources. Each such issue of beneficial interests or participations shall be in an amount determined by the trustee but not in excess of the aggregate amount which the trustee would otherwise require the trustor or trustors to pay from appropriated funds or other sources, and may be issued without regard to the provisions of paragraph (4) of this subsection. All refinancing issues of beneficial interests or participations shall be deemed to have been issued pursuant to the authority contained in the appropriation Act or Acts under which the beneficial interests or participations were originally issued.
