
# Title 12— BANKS AND BANKING
### CHAPTER 23— FARM CREDIT SYSTEM
#### § 2264. Suspension or removal of director or officer
##### (d) Statement of grounds for removal or prohibition; notice and hearing; order of suspension, removal or prohibition; service of order

A notice of intention to remove a director, officer, or other person from office or to prohibit such director’s, officer’s, or other person’s participation in the conduct of the affairs of an institution in the Farm Credit System, shall contain a statement of the facts constituting grounds therefor, and shall fix a time and place at which a hearing will be held thereon. Such hearing shall be fixed for a date not earlier than thirty days nor later than sixty days after the date of service of such notice, unless an earlier or a later date is set by the Farm Credit Administration at the request of (1) such director or officer or other person, and for good cause shown, or (2) the Attorney General of the United States. Unless such director, officer, or other person shall appear at the hearing in person or by a duly authorized representative, such director, officer, or other person shall be deemed to have consented to the issuance of an order of such removal or prohibition. In the event of such consent, or if upon the record made at any such hearing the Farm Credit Administration shall find that any of the grounds specified in such notice have been established, the Farm Credit Administration may issue such orders of suspension or removal from office, or prohibition from participation in the conduct of the affairs of the institution, as it may deem appropriate. A copy of an order issued under this subsection shall be served upon the institution concerned. Any such order shall become effective at the expiration of thirty days after service upon such institution and the director, officer, or other person concerned (except in the case of an order issued upon consent, which shall become effective at the time specified therein). Such order shall remain effective and enforceable except to such extent as it is stayed, modified, terminated, or set aside by action of the agency or a reviewing court.
