
# Title 15— COMMERCE AND TRADE
### CHAPTER 52— ELECTRIC AND HYBRID VEHICLE RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND DEMONSTRATION
#### § 2509. Loan guarantees
##### (e) Maximum guarantee per loan; maximum of aggregate guarantees; Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Development Fund; establishment, funding, etc.

(1) The amount of the guarantee of any loan shall not exceed $3,000,000, unless the Secretary of Energy finds that a higher guarantee level for specific loan guarantees is necessary in order to carry out the purposes of this chapter. If the Secretary of Energy makes such finding, he shall immediately report that finding to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the President of the Senate, the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.

(2) The aggregate amount of guarantees outstanding under this section at any one time shall not exceed $60,000,000.

(3)

(A) There is established in the Treasury of the United States an Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Development Fund (hereinafter in this paragraph referred to as the “fund”), which shall be available to the Secretary of Energy for carrying out the loan guarantee and principal and interest assistance program authorized by this chapter, including the payment of administrative expenses incurred in connection therewith. Moneys in the fund not needed for current operations may, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, be invested in bonds or other obligations of, or guaranteed by, the United States.

(B) There shall be paid into the fund such part of the amounts appropriated pursuant to section 2514 of this title as the Secretary of Energy deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter and such amounts as may be returned to the United States pursuant to subsection (g) of this section, and the amounts in the fund shall remain available until expended, except that after the expiration of the 7-year period established by subsection (h) of this section such amounts in the fund as are not required to secure outstanding guarantee obligations shall be paid into the general fund of the Treasury.

(C) If at any time the moneys available in the fund are insufficient to enable the Secretary of Energy to discharge his responsibilities under this section, he shall issue to the Secretary of the Treasury notes or other obligations in such forms and denominations, bearing such maturities, and subject to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury. This borrowing authority shall be effective only to such extent or in such amounts as are specified in appropriation Acts. Such authority shall be without fiscal year limitation. Redemption of such notes or obligations shall be made by the Secretary of Energy from appropriations or other moneys available under this chapter. Such notes or other obligations shall bear interest at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, which shall not be less than a rate determined by taking into consideration the average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturities during the month preceding the issuance of the notes or other obligations. The Secretary of the Treasury shall purchase any notes or other obligations issued hereunder and for that purpose he is authorized to use as a public debt transaction the proceeds from the sale of any securities issued under chapter 31 of title 31, and the purposes for which securities may be issued under that chapter are extended to include any purchase of such notes or obligations. The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time sell any of the notes or other obligations acquired by him under this subsection. All redemptions, purchases, and sales by the Secretary of the Treasury of such notes or other obligations shall be treated as public debt transactions of the United States.

(D) Business-type financial reports covering the operations of the fund shall be submitted to the Congress by the Secretary of Energy annually upon the completion of the appropriate accounting period.
