
# Title 22— FOREIGN RELATIONS AND INTERCOURSE
### CHAPTER 21— SETTLEMENT OF INTERNATIONAL CLAIMS
#### § 1631g. Payment of debts
##### (e) Amount payable; disallowance; notice; review; additional evidence; judgment

If the aggregate of debt claims filed as prescribed does not exceed the money from which, in accordance with subsection (d) of this section, payment may be made, the designee shall pay each claim to the extent allowed, and shall serve by registered mail, on each claimant whose claim is disallowed in whole or in part, a notice of such disallowance. Within sixty days after the date of mailing of the designee’s determination, any debt claimant whose claim has been disallowed in whole or in part may file in the District Court of the United States for the District of Columbia a complaint for review of such disallowance naming the designee as defendant. Such complaint shall be served on the designee. The designee, within forty-five days after service on him, shall certify and file in said court a transcript of the record of proceedings with respect to the claim in question. Upon good cause shown such time may be extended by the court. Such record shall include the claim as filed, such evidence with respect thereto as may have been presented to the designee or introduced into the record by him, and the determination of the designee with respect thereto, including any findings made by him. The court may, in its discretion, take additional evidence, upon a showing that such evidence was offered to and excluded by the designee, or could not reasonably have been adduced before him or was not available to him. The court shall enter judgment affirming, modifying, or reversing the designee’s determination, and directing payment in the amount, if any, which it finds due.
