
# Title 22— FOREIGN RELATIONS AND INTERCOURSE
### CHAPTER 54— PRIVATE ORGANIZATION ASSISTANCE
#### § 4413. Eligibility of the Endowment for grants
##### (f) Audit of financial transactions; reporting requirements

(1) The financial transactions of the Endowment for each fiscal year may be audited by the Government Accountability Office in accordance with such principles and procedures and under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States. Any such audit shall be conducted at the place or places where accounts of the Endowment are normally kept. The representatives of the Government Accountability Office shall have access to all books, accounts, records, reports, files, and all other papers, things, or property belonging to or in use by the Endowment pertaining to its financial transactions and necessary to facilitate the audit; and they shall be afforded full facilities for verifying transactions with any assets held by depositories, fiscal agents, and custodians. All such books, accounts, records, reports, files, papers, and property of the Endowment shall remain in the possession and custody of the Endowment.

(2) A report of each such audit shall be made by the Comptroller General to the Congress. The report to the Congress shall contain such comments and information as the Comptroller General may deem necessary to inform the Congress of the financial operations and condition of the Endowment, together with such recommendations with respect thereto as he may deem advisable. The report shall also show specifically any program, expenditure, or other financial transaction or undertaking observed in the course of the audit, which, in the opinion of the Comptroller General, has been carried on or made contrary to the requirements of this subchapter. A copy of each report shall be furnished to the President and to the Endowment at the time submitted to the Congress.
