
# Title 22— FOREIGN RELATIONS AND INTERCOURSE
### CHAPTER 52— FOREIGN SERVICE
#### § 4045. Contributions to Fund
##### (a) Rates and sources; deposits in Fund

(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, 7.25 percent of the basic salary received by each participant shall be deducted from the salary and contributed to the Fund for the payment of annuities, cash benefits, refunds, and allowances. The contribution by the employing agency shall be a percentage of basic salary equal to the percentage in effect under section 7001(d)(1) of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 ( Public Law 105–33 ; 22 U.S.C. 4045 note), and section 505(h) of the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (as enacted by Public Law 106–346 ; 114 Stat. 1356 A–54), plus .25 percent of basic salary, and shall be made from the appropriations or fund used for payment of the salary of the participant. The employing agency shall deposit in the Fund the amounts deducted and withheld from basic salary and the amounts contributed by the employing agency.

(2) Notwithstanding the percentage limitation contained in paragraph (1) of this subsection

(A) the employing agency shall deduct and withhold from the basic pay of a Foreign Service criminal investigator/inspector of the Office of the Inspector General, Agency for International Development, who is qualified to have his annuity computed in the same manner as that of a law enforcement officer pursuant to section 8339(d) of title 5 , an amount equal to that to be withheld from a law enforcement officer pursuant to section 8334(a)(1) of title 5 , plus an amount equal to .25 percent of basic pay. The amounts so deducted shall be contributed to the Fund for the payment of annuities, cash benefits, refunds, and allowances. An equal amount shall be contributed by the employing agency from the appropriations or fund used for payment of the salary of the participant. The employing agency shall deposit in the Fund the amount deducted and withheld from basic salary and amounts contributed by the employing agency.

(B) The employing agency shall deduct and withhold from the basic pay of a Foreign Service criminal investigator/inspector of the Office of the Inspector General, Agency for International Development, who is qualified to have his annuity computed pursuant to section 8415(e) of title 5 , an amount equal to that to be withheld from a law enforcement officer pursuant to section 8422(a)(2)(B)  1 of title 5, plus an amount equal to .25 percent of basic pay. The amounts so deducted shall be contributed to the Fund for the payment of annuities, cash benefits, refunds, and allowances. An equal amount shall be contributed by the employing agency from the appropriations or fund used for payment of the salary of the participant. The employing agency shall deposit in the Fund the amounts deducted and withheld from basic salary and amounts contributed by the employing agency.

(3) For service as a special agent, paragraph (1) shall be applied by substituting for “7 percent” the percentage that applies to law enforcement officers under section 8334(a)(1) of title 5 , plus .25 percent.
