
# Title 22— FOREIGN RELATIONS AND INTERCOURSE
### CHAPTER 67— FREEDOM FOR RUSSIA AND EMERGING EURASIAN DEMOCRACIES AND OPEN MARKETS SUPPORT
#### § 5861. Research and Development Foundation
##### (d) Funding

(1) Use of certain Department of Defense funds

(A) To the extent funds appropriated to carry out subtitle E of title XIV of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 [ 22 U.S.C. 5931 ] (relating to joint research and development programs with the independent states of the former Soviet Union) are otherwise available for such purpose, such funds may be made available to the Director for use by the Director in establishing the endowment of the Foundation and otherwise carrying out this section.

(B) For each fiscal year after fiscal year 1993, not more than 50 percent of the funds made available to the Foundation by the United States Government may be funds appropriated in the national defense budget function (function 050).

(2) Contribution to endowment by participating independent states

As a condition of participation in the Foundation, an independent state of the former Soviet Union must make a minimum contribution to the endowment of the Foundation, as determined by the Director, which shall reflect the ability of the independent state to make a financial contribution and its expected level of participation in the Foundation’s programs.

(3) Debt conversions

To the extent provided in advance by appropriations Acts, local currencies or other assets resulting from government-to-government debt conversions may be made available to the Foundation. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “debt conversion” means an agreement whereby a country’s government-to-government or commercial external debt burden is exchanged by the holder for local currencies, policy commitments, other assets, or other economic activities, or for an equity interest in an enterprise theretofore owned by the debtor government.

(4) Local currencies

In addition to other uses provided by law, and subject to agreement with the foreign government, local currencies generated by United States assistance programs may be made available to the Foundation.

(5) Investment of Government assistance

The Foundation may invest any revenue provided to it through United States Government assistance, and any interest earned on such investment may be used only for the purpose for which the assistance was provided.

(6) Other funds from Government and nongovernmental sources

The Foundation may accept such other funds as may be provided to it by Government agencies or nongovernmental entities.

SUBCHAPTER V— SPACE TRADE AND COOPERATION
