
# Title 22— FOREIGN RELATIONS AND INTERCOURSE
### CHAPTER 7— INTERNATIONAL BUREAUS, CONGRESSES, ETC.
#### § 290f. Inter-American Foundation
##### (g) Board of directors; number, term, and appointment

The management of the Foundation shall be vested in a board of directors (hereafter in this section referred to as the “Board”) composed of nine members appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, one of whom he shall designate to serve as Chairman of the Board and one of whom he shall designate to serve as Vice Chairman of the Board. Six members of the Board shall be appointed from private life. Three members of the Board shall be appointed from among the following: officers or employees of agencies of the United States concerned with inter-American affairs, the United States Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank, or the Alternate Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank. Members of the Board shall be appointed for terms of six years, except that of the members first appointed two shall be appointed for terms of two years and two shall be appointed for terms of four years, as designated by the President at the time of their appointment. A member of the Board appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the term for which his predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of such term; but upon the expiration of his term of office a member shall continue to serve until his successor is appointed and shall have qualified. Members of the Board shall be eligible for reappointment. All individuals appointed to the Board shall possess an understanding of and sensitivity to community level development processes. No more than 5 members of the Board may be members of any one political party.
