
# Title 45— RAILROADS
### CHAPTER 11— RAILROAD UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
#### § 362. Duties and powers of Board
##### (i) Free employment offices; registration of unemployed; statements of sickness; reemployment

The Board may establish, maintain, and operate free employment offices, and may designate as free employment offices facilities maintained by (i) a railway labor organization which is duly authorized and designated to represent employees in accordance with the Railway Labor Act [ 45 U.S.C. 151 et seq.], or (ii) any other labor organization which has been or may be organized in accordance with the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, or (iii) one or more employers, or (iv) an organization of employers, or (v) a group of such employers and labor organizations, or (vi) a State, Territorial, foreign, or the Federal Government. The Board may also enter into agreements or arrangements with one or more employers or railway labor organizations organized in accordance with the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, pursuant to which notice of the availability of work and the rights of employees with respect to such work under agreements between such employers and railway labor organizations may be filed with employment offices and pursuant to which employees registered with employment offices may be referred to such work.

The Board shall prescribe a procedure for registration of unemployed employees at employment offices. Such procedure for registration shall be prescribed with a view to such registration affording substantial evidence of the days of unemployment of the employees who register. The Board may, when such registration is made personally by an employee, accept such registration as initial proof of unemployment sufficient to certify for payment a claim for benefits.

The Board shall provide a form or forms for statements of sickness and a procedure for the execution and filing thereof. Such forms and procedure shall be designated with a view to having such statements provide substantial evidence of the days of sickness of the employee. Such statements may be executed by any doctor (authorized to practice in the State or foreign jurisdiction in which he practices his profession) or any officer or supervisory employee of a hospital, clinic, group health association, or other similar organization, who is qualified under such regulations as the Board may prescribe to execute such statements. The Board shall issue regulations for the qualification of such persons to execute such statements. When so executed by any such person, or, in the discretion of the Board, by others designated by the Board individually or by groups, they may be accepted as initial proof of days of sickness sufficient to certify for payment a claim for benefits.

The regulations of the Board concerning registration at employment offices by unemployed persons may provide for group registration and reporting, through employers, and need not be uniform with respect to different classes of employees.

The operation of any employment facility operated by the Board shall be directed primarily toward the reemployment of employees who have theretofore been substantially employed by employers.
