
# Title 45— RAILROADS
### CHAPTER 16— REGIONAL RAIL REORGANIZATION
#### § 745. Continuing reorganization; supplemental transactions
##### (d) Special court proceedings

(1) If the Association has made the determination pursuant to subsection (b) of this section that a proposal for supplemental transactions is in the public interest and consistent with the purposes of this chapter and the goals of the final system plan, and is fair and equitable, the Association shall, within 40 days after the date of the Commission’s determination under subsection (c) of this section, or after the expiration of the 90-day period referred to in such subsection (c), whichever is applicable, petition the special court for an order of such court finding that such proposal for supplemental transactions is in the public interest and consistent with the purposes of this chapter and the goals of the final system plan, and is fair and equitable, and directing the Corporation to carry out the supplemental transactions specified in such proposal. If the Association has determined, pursuant to subsection (b) of this section that a proposal made by the Secretary is not in the public interest or is not consistent with the purposes of this chapter and the goals of the final system plan or is not fair and equitable, the Secretary may, if he determines that such proposal is in the public interest and consistent with the purposes of this chapter and the goals of the final system plan and is fair and equitable, petition the special court for an order of such court finding that such proposal for supplemental transactions is in the public interest and consistent with the purposes of this chapter and the goals of the final system plan and is fair and equitable, and directing the Corporation to carry out any supplemental transactions specified in such proposal. Such a petition shall be submitted to the special court within 90 days after the date of the Commission’s determination under such subsection (c), or after the expiration of the 90-day period referred to in such subsection (c), whichever is applicable.

(2) After the filing of a petition under paragraph (1) of this subsection, the special court shall decide, after a hearing, whether the proposed supplemental transactions contained in such petition, considered in their entirety, are in the public interest and consistent with the purposes of this chapter and the goals of the final system plan and are fair and equitable. If the special court determines that such proposed supplemental transactions, considered in their entirety, are in the public interest and consistent with the purposes of this chapter and the goals of the final system plan and are fair and equitable, it shall, upon making such determination, issue such orders as may be necessary to direct the Corporation to consummate the transactions. If the special court determines that such proposed supplemental transactions, considered in their entirety, are not in the public interest or not consistent with the purposes of this chapter and the goals of the final system plan, or are not fair and equitable, it shall file an opinion stating its conclusion and the reasons therefor. In such event the Association (in the case of a proposal developed by the Association) or the Secretary (in the case of a proposal developed by the Secretary) may, within 120 days after the filing of such opinion, certify to the special court that the terms and conditions of the proposal have been modified consistent with the opinion of the court and are acceptable to each proposed transferor (other than the Corporation) or transferee, and may petition the special court for reconsideration of the proposal as so modified. After the filing of such petition, the special court shall decide, after a hearing, whether the proposal as modified by the certification is in the public interest and consistent with the purposes of this chapter and the goals of the final system plan and is fair and equitable, and shall enter such further orders as are consistent with its determination.

(3) The Corporation is authorized to petition the special court and to be represented regarding any proposed supplemental transaction, contained in a proposal developed by either the Association or the Secretary, which involves the properties of the Corporation.

(4) In proceedings under this subsection, the special court is authorized to exercise the powers of a reorganization court.

(5) Any evaluation by the Association, the Secretary, or the Commission shall not be reviewable in any court except the special court in accordance with the provisions of this section. The supplemental transactions shall not be restrained or enjoined by any court nor shall they be otherwise reviewable by any court other than by the special court to the extent provided in this section.

(6) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no findings, determinations, or proceedings shall be required with respect to any proposal for supplemental transactions other than as expressly set forth in this section.

(7) Repealed. Pub. L. 97–35, title XI, § 1155(b) , Aug. 13, 1981 , 95 Stat. 679 .

(8) A final order or judgment of the special court entering or denying an order pursuant to this subsection shall be reviewable in the same manner as provided in section 719(e)(3) of this title .
