
# Title 45— RAILROADS
### CHAPTER 11— RAILROAD UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
#### § 362. Duties and powers of Board
##### (n) Sickness benefits; examinations; information and reports; contracts and expenses for examinations

Any employee claiming, entitled to, or receiving sickness benefits under this chapter may be required to take such examination, physical, medical, mental, or otherwise, in such manner and at such times and by such qualified individuals, including medical officers or employees of the United States or a State, as the Board may prescribe. The place or places of examination shall be reasonably convenient for the employee. No sickness benefits shall be payable under this chapter with respect to any period during which the employee unreasonably refuses to take or willfully obstructs an examination as prescribed by the Board.

Any doctor who renders any attendance, treatment, attention, or care, or performs any examination with respect to a sickness of an employee, upon which a claim or right to benefits under this chapter is based, shall furnish the Board, in such manner and form and at such times as the Board by regulations may prescribe, information and reports relative thereto and to the condition of the employee. An application for sickness benefits under this chapter shall contain a waiver of any doctor-patient privilege that the employee may have with respect to any sickness period upon which such application is based: Provided , That such information shall not be disclosed by the Board except in a proceeding relating to any claim for benefits by the employee under this chapter.

The Board may enter into agreements or arrangements with doctors, hospitals, clinics, or other persons for securing the examination, physical, medical, mental, or otherwise, of employees claiming, entitled to, or receiving sickness benefits under this chapter and the performance of services or the use of facilities in connection with the execution of statements of sickness. The Board may compensate any such doctors, hospitals, clinics, or other persons upon such reasonable basis as the Board shall prescribe. Such doctors, hospitals, clinics, or other persons and persons employed by any of them shall not be subject to section 209 of title 18 . In the event that the Board pays for the physical or mental examination of an employee or for the execution of a statement of sickness and such employee’s claim for benefits is based upon such examination or statement, the Board shall deduct from any sickness benefits payable to the employee pursuant to such claim such amount as, in the judgment of the Board, is a fair and reasonable charge for such examination or execution of such statement.
