
# Title 7— AGRICULTURE
### CHAPTER 35A— PRICE SUPPORT OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
#### § 1444. Cotton price support levels
##### (h) Program for extra long staple cotton beginning with 1984 crop
######## (A) In addition, payments shall be made for each crop of extra long staple cotton to producers on each farm at a rate equal to the amount by which the higher of

(i) the average market price received by farmers for extra long staple cotton during the first eight months of the marketing year for such crop, as determined by the Secretary, or

(ii) the loan level determined under paragraph (2) of this subsection for such crop, is less than the established price per pound times, in each case, the farm program acreage for extra long staple cotton (determined in accordance with paragraph (5)(A), but in no event on a greater acreage than the acreage actually planted to extra long staple cotton for harvest), multiplied by the farm program payment yield for extra long staple cotton (determined in accordance with paragraph (4)).

(B) The established price for each crop of extra long staple cotton shall be 120 per centum of the loan level determined for such crop under paragraph (2) of this subsection.

(C) If the Secretary establishes an acreage limitation program for a crop of extra long staple cotton in accordance with paragraph (5)(A) and determines that deficiency payments will likely be made for such crop of extra long staple cotton under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the Secretary may make available advance deficiency payments for such crop to producers who agree to participate in the acreage limitation program. Such advance payments shall be made available to producers as soon as practicable after the producer files a notice of intention to participate in such acreage limitation program and in such amount as the Secretary determines appropriate to encourage adequate participation in such program, except that such amount shall not exceed an amount determined by multiplying (i) the estimated farm program acreage for the crop, by (ii) the farm program payment yield for the crop, by (iii) 50 per centum of the projected payment rate, as determined by the Secretary. In any case in which the deficiency payment payable to a producer for a crop, as finally determined by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, is less than the amount paid to the producer as an advance deficiency payment under this paragraph, the producer shall refund an amount equal to the difference between the amount advanced and the amount finally determined by the Secretary to be payable to the producer. If the Secretary determines that no deficiency payments are due producers on a crop, the producer who received advanced payments on such crop shall refund such payments. If a producer fails to comply with the requirements under the acreage limitation program after obtaining an advance deficiency payment under this paragraph, the producer shall immediately repay the amount of the advance, plus interest thereon in such amount as the Secretary shall prescribe.

(4) The farm program payment yield for each crop of extra long staple cotton shall be determined on the basis of the actual yields per harvested acre on the farm for the preceding three years, except that the actual yields shall be adjusted by the Secretary for abnormal yields in any year caused by drought, flood, or other natural disaster, or other condition beyond the control of the producers. In case farm yield data for one or more years are unavailable or there was no production, the Secretary shall provide for appraisals to be made on the basis of actual yields and program payment yields for similar farms in the area for which data are available. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph in the determination of yields, the Secretary shall take into account the actual yields proved by the producer, and neither such yields nor the farm program payment yield established on the basis of such yields shall be reduced under other provisions of this paragraph. If the Secretary determines it necessary, the Secretary may establish national, State, or county program payment yields on the basis of historical yields, as adjusted by the Secretary to correct for abnormal factors affecting such yields in the historical period, or, if such data are not available, on the Secretary’s estimate of actual yields for the crop year involved. If national, State, or county program payment yields are established, the farm program payment yields shall balance to the national, State, or county program payment yields.

(5)

(A)

(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, the Secretary may establish a limitation on the acreage planted to extra long staple cotton if the Secretary determines that the total supply of extra long staple cotton, in the absence of such limitation, will be excessive taking into account the need for an adequate carryover to maintain reasonable and stable prices and to meet a national emergency. Such limitation shall be achieved by applying a uniform percentage reduction (including a zero percentage reduction) to the acreage base for each extra long staple cotton-producing farm. Producers who knowingly produce extra long staple cotton in excess of the permitted acreage for the farm shall be ineligible for extra long staple cotton loans and payments with respect to that farm. The acreage base for any farm for the purpose of determining any reduction required to be made for any year as a result of a limitation under this subparagraph shall be the average acreage planted on the farm to extra long staple cotton for harvest in the three crop years immediately preceding the year prior to the year for which the determination is made. For the purpose of the preceding sentence, acreage planted to extra long staple cotton for harvest shall include any acreage which the producers were prevented from planting to extra long staple cotton or other nonconserving crops in lieu of extra long staple cotton because of drought, flood, or other natural disaster or other condition beyond the control of the producers. The Secretary may make adjustments to reflect established crop-rotation practices and to reflect such other factors as the Secretary determines should be considered in determining a fair and equitable base. There is hereby established for the 1984, 1985, and 1986 crops an acreage base reserve equal to 5 per centum of the total of the farm acreage bases established for the crop under the foregoing provisions of this subparagraph. Such reserve shall be in addition to the total of the farm acreage bases and shall be used by the county committees, in accordance with regulations of the Secretary, for making adjustments of farm acreage bases to correct inequities and prevent hardship, and for establishing bases for farms on which no extra long staple cotton was planted during the preceding four years. A number of acres on the farm determined by dividing (i) the product obtained by multiplying the number of acres required to be withdrawn from the production of extra long staple cotton times the number of acres actually planted to such commodity, by (ii) the number of acres authorized to be planted to such commodity under the limitation established by the Secretary, shall be devoted to conservation uses, in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary, which will assure protection of such acreage from weeds and wind and water erosion. The number of acres so determined is hereafter in this subsection referred to as “reduced acreage”. The Secretary may permit, subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, all or any part of the reduced acreage to be devoted to sweet sorghum, hay and grazing, or the production of guar, sesame, safflower, sunflower, castor beans, mustard seed, crambe, plantago ovato, flaxseed, triticale, rye, or other commodity, if the Secretary determines that such production is needed to provide an adequate supply of such commodities, is not likely to increase the cost of the price support program, and will not affect farm income adversely. The individual farm program acreage shall be the actual acreage planted on the farm to extra long staple cotton for harvest within the permitted extra long staple cotton acreage for the farm as established under this paragraph.

(ii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Secretary shall ensure, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Secretary, that the total of the crop acreage bases established on a farm which is enrolled in a production adjustment program for any commodity shall not be increased as a result of the application of the provisions set forth in paragraph (13)(C), as extended for the 1989 and 1990 crop.

(B) The Secretary may make land diversion payments to producers of extra long staple cotton, whether or not an acreage limitation program for extra long staple cotton is in effect, if the Secretary determines that such land diversion payments are necessary to assist in adjusting the total national acreage of extra long staple cotton to desirable goals. Such land diversion payments shall be made to producers who, to the extent prescribed by the Secretary, devote to approved conservation uses an acreage of cropland on the farm in accordance with land diversion contracts entered into by the Secretary with such producers. The amounts payable to producers under land diversion contracts may be determined through the submission of bids for such contracts by producers in such manner as the Secretary may prescribe or through such other means as the Secretary determines appropriate. In determining the acceptability of contract offers, the Secretary shall take into consideration the extent of the diversion to be undertaken by the producers and the productivity of the acreage diverted. The Secretary shall limit the total acreage to be diverted under agreements in any county or local community so as not to affect adversely the economy of the county or local community.

(C) The reduced acreage and the diverted acreage may be devoted to wildlife food plots or wildlife habitat in conformity with standards established by the Secretary in consultation with wildlife agencies. The Secretary may pay an appropriate share of the cost of practices designed to carry out the purpose of the foregoing sentence. The Secretary may provide for an additional payment on such acreage in an amount determined by the Secretary to be appropriate in relation to the benefit to the general public if the producer agrees to permit, without other compensation, access to all or such portion of the farm, as the Secretary may prescribe, by the general public, for hunting, trapping, fishing, and hiking, subject to applicable State and Federal regulations.

(6) An operator of a farm desiring to participate in the program conducted under paragraph (5) shall execute an agreement with the Secretary providing for such participation not later than such date as the Secretary may prescribe. The Secretary may, by mutual agreement with the producers on the farm, terminate or modify any such agreement if the Secretary determines such action necessary because of an emergency created by drought or other disaster or to prevent or alleviate a shortage in the supply of agricultural commodities.

(7) The Secretary shall provide for the sharing of payments made under this subsection for any farm among the producers on the farm on a fair and equitable basis.

(8) The Secretary shall provide adequate safeguards to protect the interests of tenants and sharecroppers.

(9) If the failure of a producer to comply fully with the terms and conditions of the program formulated under this subsection precludes the making of loans and payments, the Secretary may, nevertheless, make such loans and payments in such amounts as the Secretary determines to be equitable in relation to the seriousness of the failure. The Secretary may authorize the county and State committees established under section 590h(b) of title 16 to waive or modify deadlines and other program requirements in cases in which lateness or failure to meet such other requirements does not affect adversely the operation of the program.

(10) The Secretary may issue such regulations as the Secretary determines necessary to carry out the provisions of this subsection.

(11) The Secretary shall carry out the program authorized by this subsection through the Commodity Credit Corporation.

(12) The provisions of section 590h(g) of title 16 (relating to assignment of payments) shall apply to payments made under this subsection.

(13)

(A) Compliance on a farm with the terms and conditions of any other commodity program or compliance with crop acreage base requirements for any other commodity may not be required as a condition of eligibility for loans or payments under this section.

(B) The Secretary may not require producers on a farm, as a condition of eligibility for loans or payments under this section for the farm, to comply with the terms and conditions of the extra long staple cotton program with respect to any other farm operated by the producers.

(14) In order to encourage and assist producers in the orderly ginning and marketing of their extra long staple cotton production, the Secretary shall make recourse loans available to such producers on seed cotton in accordance with authority vested in the Secretary under the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act [ 15 U.S.C. 714 et seq.].

(15) References made in sections 1422, 1423, 1426, 3 1427, and 1431 of this title to the terms “support price”, “level of support”, and “level of price support” shall be considered to apply as well to the level of loans for extra long staple cotton under this subsection; and references to the terms “price support”, “price support operations”, and “price support program” in such sections and in section 1421(a) of this title shall be considered as applying as well to the loan operations for extra long staple cotton under this subsection.

(16) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, this subsection shall not be applicable to the 1996 and subsequent crops of extra long staple cotton.
