
# Title 7— AGRICULTURE
### CHAPTER 58— POTATO RESEARCH AND PROMOTION
#### § 2619. Assessments
##### (a) Collection and payment; recordkeeping; limitation

(1) Each handler designated by the board, pursuant to regulations issued under the plan, to make payment of assessments shall be responsible for payment to the board, as it may direct, of any assessment levied on potatoes; and such handler may collect from any producer or deduct from the proceeds paid to any producer, on whose potatoes such assessment is made, any such assessment required to be paid by such handler. Such handler shall maintain a separate record with respect to each producer for whom potatoes were handled, and such records shall indicate the total quantity of potatoes handled by him including those handled for producers and for himself, shall indicate the total quantity of potatoes handled by him which are included under the terms of a plan as well as those which are exempt under such plan, and shall indicate such other information as may be prescribed by the board. To facilitate the collection and payment of such assessments, the board may designate different handlers or classes of handlers to recognize differences in marketing practices or procedures utilized in any State or area. No more than one such assessment shall be made on any potatoes.

(2) When importers are subject to a plan, each importer designated by the board, pursuant to regulations issued under the plan, to make payment of assessments shall be responsible for payment to the board, as it may direct, of any assessment levied on potatoes. The assessment on imported tablestock, frozen, or processed potatoes for ultimate consumption by humans, and seed potatoes shall be established by the board so that the effective assessment shall equal that on domestic production and shall be paid by the importer to the board at the time of entry into the United States. Each such importer shall maintain a separate record including the total quantity of tablestock, frozen, processed potatoes for ultimate consumption by humans, and seed potatoes imported into the United States that are included under the terms of the plan as well as those that are exempt under such plan, and shall indicate such other information as may be prescribed by the board. No more than one assessment shall be made on any imported potatoes.
