
# Title 7— AGRICULTURE
### CHAPTER 53— COTTON RESEARCH AND PROMOTION
#### § 2107. Referenda
##### (c) Future referendums every five years or by request of cotton producers and importers

(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 2103 and 2104 of this title, once every five years after the date of the referendum provided for under subsection (b), the Secretary shall conduct a review to ascertain whether a referendum is needed to determine whether producers and importers favor continuation of the amendment to the order provided for in the Cotton Research and Promotion Act Amendments of 1990 if such amendment is then in effect or, if such an amendment is not in effect, whether they favor approval of such amendment. The Secretary shall make a public announcement of the results of the review within 60 days after each fifth anniversary date of the referendum provided for under subsection (b). If the Secretary determines to provide for such a referendum, the Secretary shall conduct the referendum within 12 months after a public announcement of the determination to conduct the referendum.

(2) If the Secretary does not provide for such a referendum on the Secretary’s own initiative, the Secretary shall conduct such a referendum upon the request of 10 percent or more of the number of cotton producers and importers voting in the most recent referendum, except that, in counting such requests for a referendum, not more than 20 percent of such requests may be from producers from any one State or importers of cotton. Producers and importers may sign up to request such a referendum at the county office of the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, or county extension agent, or by mailing such a request to the Secretary, as prescribed in regulations. The sign-up period shall be for a period not to exceed 90 days, shall commence 60 days after the Secretary makes a public announcement of a determination not to provide for a referendum on the Secretary’s own initiative, and shall be publicized by the Secretary and the Cotton Board immediately after such public announcement. The referendum shall be held within 12 months after the end of the sign-up period, if requested by the requisite number of persons.

(3) The amendment to the order provided for in this subsection shall not be effective if it is disapproved by a majority of cotton producers and importers of cotton voting in the referendum.
