
# Title 51— NATIONAL AND COMMERCIAL SPACE PROGRAMS
## Subtitle IV— Aeronautics and Space Research and Education
### CHAPTER 409— MISCELLANEOUS
#### § 40901. Science, Space, and Technology Education Trust Fund

There is appropriated, by transfer from funds appropriated in the Department of Housing and Urban Development—Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1989 ( Public Law 100–404 , 102 Stat. 1014 ), for “Construction of facilities”, the sum of $15,000,000 to the “Science, Space, and Technology Education Trust Fund”, which is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States. The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest these funds in the United States Treasury special issue securities, and interest shall be credited to the Trust Fund on a quarterly basis. Such interest shall be available for the purpose of making grants for programs directed at improving science, space, and technology education in the United States. The Administrator, after consultation with the Director of the National Science Foundation, shall review applications made for such grants and determine the distribution of available funds on a competitive basis. Grants shall be made available to any awardee only to the extent that the awardee provides matching funds from non-Federal sources to carry out the program for which grants from this Trust Fund are made. Of the funds made available by this Trust Fund, $250,000 shall be disbursed each calendar quarter to the Challenger Center for Space Science Education. The Administrator shall submit to Congress an annual report on the grants made pursuant to this section.
