
# Title 50— WAR AND NATIONAL DEFENSE
### CHAPTER 53— TRADING WITH THE ENEMY
#### § 4331. Payment of debts
##### (a) Claims allowable; defenses

Any property or interest vested in or transferred to the Alien Property Custodian (other than any property or interest acquired by the United States prior to December 18, 1941 ), or the net proceeds thereof, shall be equitably applied by the Custodian in accordance with the provisions of this section to the payment of debts owed by the person who owned such property or interest immediately prior to its vesting in or transfer to the Alien Property Custodian. No debt claim shall be allowed under this section if it was not due and owing at the time of such vesting or transfer, or if it arose from any action or transactions prohibited by or pursuant to this chapter and not licensed or otherwise authorized pursuant thereto, or (except in the case of debt claims acquired by the Custodian) if it was at the time of such vesting or transfer due and owing to any person who has since the beginning of the war been convicted of violation of this chapter, as amended, sections 1 to 6 of the Criminal Code, title I of the Act of June 15, 1917 (ch. 30, 40 Stat. 217 ), as amended; the Act of April 20, 1918 (ch. 59, 40 Stat. 534 ), as amended; the Act of June 8, 1934 1 (ch. 327, 52 Stat. 631 ), as amended; the Act of January 12, 1938 (ch. 2, 52 Stat. 3 ); title I, Alien Registration Act, 1940 (ch. 439, 54 Stat. 670 ); the Act of October 17, 1940 (ch. 897, 54 Stat. 1201 ); or the Act of June 25, 1942 (ch. 447, 56 Stat. 390 ). Any defense to the payment of such claims which would have been available to the debtor shall be available to the Custodian, except that the period from and after the beginning of the war shall not be included for the purpose of determining the application of any statute of limitations. Debt claims allowable hereunder shall include only those of citizens of the United States or of the Philippine Islands; those of corporations organized under the laws of the United States or any State, Territory, or possession thereof, or the District of Columbia or the Philippine Islands; those of other natural persons who are and have been since the beginning of the war residents of the United States and who have not during the war been interned or paroled pursuant to the Alien Enemy Act; and those acquired by the Custodian. Legal representatives (whether or not appointed by a court in the United States) or successors in interest by inheritance, devise, bequest, or operation of law or debt claimants, other than persons who would themselves be disqualified hereunder from allowance of a debt claim, shall be eligible for payment to the same extent as their principals or predecessors would have been.
